# IMDS Exploration

**Elf**: Noxious O'Dor<br/>
**Direct link**: [imds terminal](https://docker2021.kringlecon.com/?challenge=imds&id=d560bf4a-afdb-49b9-be34-634845a8d14c)<br/>
**Objective**: [Now Hiring!](../objectives/o10.md)


## Request

!!! quote "Noxious O'Dor"
    Hey, this is the executive restroom. Wasn't that door closed?<br/>
    I'm Noxious O'Dor. And I've gotta say, I think that Jack Frost is just messed up.<br/>
    I mean, I'm no expert, but his effort to "win" against Santa by going bigger and bolder seems bad.<br/>
    You know, I'm having some trouble with this IMDS exploration. I'm hoping you can give me some help in solving it.<br/>
    If you do, I'll be happy to trade you for some hints on SSRF! I've been studying up on that and have some good ideas on how to attack it!<br/>


## Solution

??? abstract "Welcome message"
    ```text
    🎄🎄🎄 Prof. Petabyte here. In this lesson you'll continue to build your cloud asset skills,
    🎄🎄🎄 interacting with the Instance Metadata Service (IMDS) using curl.
    🎄🎄🎄
    🎄🎄🎄 If you get stuck, run 'hint' for assitance.
    🎄🎄🎄
    ```

This terminal takes you through what [IMDS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/instancedata-data-retrieval.html) is and how you can interact with the service by going over various sample `curl` commands. Instead of rehashing the same commands here and calling it a write-up, let's look at some other fun things we can do, like skipping past all the questions or elevating our privieleges to *root* on the terminal! :metal:

### Speedrun

During Prof. Petabyte's lesson you're asked to type *next* a few times. This command actually works for every single question and so a one-liner like `for i in {1..18}; do next; sleep 1; done` will award you the achievement with minimal effort.

<iframe width="850" height="478" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eUDcs1jZ6us" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### Getting root

Skipping past all the questions is fun, but getting a root shell is better! :partying_face:

Start by using ++"Ctrl"++ + ++"c"++ to break out of the startup sequence. If you time it right you'll prevent the bottom pane from fully loading and end up logged in as the *init* user. In the user's home folder you'll find a [`tmuxp`](https://github.com/tmux-python/tmuxp) session configuration file (i.e., `mysession.yaml`), the `top_pane` and `bottom_pane` [setuid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Setuid) binaries that are run in each `tmux` pane, and a `questions_answers.json` file.

During terminal startup there's an `/etc/sudoers` file present with an entry for the *elfu* user. However, as `top_bar` parses `questions_answers.json` and loads the data for the first question, it'll execute 2 additional commands, one being `sudo rm /etc/sudoers` which removes *elfu*'s `sudo` permissions again. 

??? info "Taking ownership of files"
    Even though files like `questions_answers.json` are owned by *root* and only readable by *init*, we can leverage the *init* user's `rwx` home folder permissions to take ownership of the files. Create a copy of the files and replace the original *root*-owned files by simply renaming the copies.

To get a root shell, open a new `tmux` window using ++"Ctrl"++ + ++"b"++ ++"c"++ (line 2), kill the old processes (lines 3-5), take ownership of the files so we can edit them (lines 6-9), change the session name in `mysession.yaml` (line 10), edit `questions_answers.json` so it doesn't delete `/etc/sudoers` (line 11), and load `mysession.yaml` to initialize everything again (line 12). We've now switched to the *elfu* account but with the `/etc/sudoers` file still in place, meaning `sudo bash` will give us our root shell.

```shell linenums="1" title="Terminal commands"
# ctrl+c out of the startup sequence
# ctrl+b c to open a new tmux window
ps ax  # list all processes
kill -9 43  # kill the old top pane bash process
kill -9 79  # kill the old bottom pane bash process
cp questions_answers.json questions_answers_copy.json  # create a writable copy
mv -f questions_answers_copy.json questions_answers.json  # rename the file to replace the original
cp mysession.yaml mysession_copy.yaml  # create a writable copy
mv -f mysession_copy.yaml mysession.yaml  # rename the file to replace the original
sed -i 's/ElfU/Elfu2Root/g' mysession.yaml  # edit the session name to Elfu2Root
pico questions_answers.json  # remove the "sudo rm /etc/sudoers" line (e.g., pico, vi)
tmuxp load mysession.yaml  # load the tmux session again
sudo bash  # leverage elfu's sudo permissions
```

Putting all of the above into practice looks something like this.

<iframe width="850" height="478" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CfUc4lBr_Ts" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Response

!!! quote "Noxious O'Dor"
    Phew! That is something extra! Oh, and you solved the challenge too? Great!<br/>
    Cloud assets are interesting targets for attackers. Did you know they automatically get IMDS access?<br/>
    I'm very concerned about the combination of SSRF and IMDS access.<br/>
    Did you know it's possible to harvest cloud keys through SSRF and IMDS attacks?<br/>
    Dr. Petabyte told us, "anytime you see URL as an input, test for SSRF."<br/>
    With an SSRF attack, we can make the server request a URL. This can reveal valuable data!<br/>
    The [AWS documentation for IMDS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/instancedata-data-retrieval.html) is interesting reading.
